DOCSP-42297: Time Series (#78)
mongodb/docs-java-rs: source/data-formats/time-series.txt

- Metadata that describes the measurement

The following table describes sample situations for which you could store time
series data:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 33, 33, 33
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - Situation
     - Measured Quantity
     - Metadata

   * - Recording monthly sales by industry
     - Revenue in USD
     - Company, country

   * - Tracking weather changes
     - Precipitation level
     - Location, sensor type

   * - Recording fluctuations in housing prices
     - Monthly rent price
     - Location, currency

.. _java-rs-time-series-create:

Create a Time Series Collection
-------------------------------

.. important:: Server Version for Time Series Collections

   To create and interact with time series collections, you must be
   connected to a deployment running {+mdb-server+} 5.0 or later.

You can create a time series collection to store time series data.  
To create a time series collection, pass the following parameters to the 
``createCollection()`` method:

- The name of the new collection to create

- A `CreateCollectionOptions <{+api+}/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/CreateCollectionOptions.html>`__

>   object with the `TimeSeriesOptions <{+api+}/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/TimeSeriesOptions.html>`__ set
>   using the ``timeSeriesOptions()`` method

Reviewer: S: to avoid "using"
```suggestion
  object with the `TimeSeriesOptions <{+api+}/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/TimeSeriesOptions.html>`__ specified in the ``timeSeriesOptions()`` method
```

.. _java-rs-time-series-create-example:

Example
~~~~~~~

> This example creates the ``october2024`` time series collection in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example creates a time series collection named ``october2024`` in the
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-formats/time-series.java
   :language: java
   :start-after: start-create-time-series
   :end-before: end-create-time-series
   :dedent:

To verify that you successfully created the time series collection, run
the ``listCollections()`` method on the database and print the results:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/data-formats/time-series.java
      :language: java
      :start-after: start-print-time-series
      :end-before: end-print-time-series
      :dedent:

   .. output::

      Document{{name=october2024, type=timeseries, options=Document{{timeseries=Document{{timeField=timestamp, granularity=seconds, bucketMaxSpanSeconds=3600}}}}, info=Document{{readOnly=false}}}}
      ...

.. _java-rs-time-series-store:

Store Time Series Data
----------------------

You can insert data into a time series collection by using the ``insertOne()``
or ``insertMany()`` methods and specifying the measurement, timestamp, and metadata
in each inserted document.

.. tip::

   To learn more about inserting documents into a collection, see the :ref:`java-rs-write-insert`
   guide.

Example

> ~~~~~~~

Reviewer: I don't think this header is needed here

> This example inserts New York City temperature data into the ``october2024``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example inserts New York City temperature data into the ``october2024``
```
